cosmovisor/README.md, before:

# Cosmosvisor Quick Start

`cosmovisor` is a small process manager for Cosmos SDK application binaries that monitors the governance module via stdout for incoming chain upgrade proposals. If it sees a proposal that gets approved, `cosmovisor` can automatically download the new binary, stop the current binary, switch from the old binary to the new one, and finally restart the node with the new binary.

*Note: If new versions of the application are not set up to run in-place store migrations, migrations will need to be run manually before restarting `cosmovisor` with the new binary. For this reason, we recommend applications adopt in-place store migrations.*

## Installation

To install `cosmovisor`, run the following command:

```
go get github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/cosmovisor/cmd/cosmovisor
```

## Command Line Arguments And Environment Variables

All arguments passed to `cosmovisor` will be passed to the application binary (as a subprocess). `cosmovisor` will return `/dev/stdout` and `/dev/stderr` of the subprocess as its own. For this reason, `cosmovisor` cannot accept any command-line arguments other than those available to the application binary, nor will it print anything to output other than what is printed by the application binary.

`cosmovisor` reads its configuration from environment variables:

* `DAEMON_HOME` is the location where the `cosmovisor/` directory is kept that contains the genesis binary, the upgrade binaries, and any additional auxiliary files associated with each binary (e.g. `$HOME/.gaiad`, `$HOME/.regend`, `$HOME/.simd`, etc.).
* `DAEMON_NAME` is the name of the binary itself (e.g. `gaiad`, `regend`, `simd`, etc.).
* `DAEMON_ALLOW_DOWNLOAD_BINARIES` (*optional*), if set to `true`, will enable auto-downloading of new binaries (for security reasons, this is intended for full nodes rather than validators). By default, `cosmovisor` will not auto-download new binaries.
* `DAEMON_RESTART_AFTER_UPGRADE` (*optional*), if set to `true`, will restart the subprocess with the same command-line arguments and flags (but with the new binary) after a successful upgrade. By default, `cosmovisor` stops running after an upgrade and requires the system administrator to manually restart it. Note that `cosmovisor` will not auto-restart the subprocess if there was an error.

## Folder Layout

`$DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor` is expected to belong completely to `cosmovisor` and the subprocesses that are controlled by it. The folder content is organized as follows:

```
.
├── current -> genesis or upgrades/<name>
├── genesis
│   └── bin
│       └── $DAEMON_NAME
└── upgrades
    └── <name>
        └── bin
            └── $DAEMON_NAME
```

The `cosmovisor/` directory incudes a subdirectory for each version of the application (i.e. `genesis` or `upgrades/<name>`). Within each subdirectory is the application binary (i.e. `bin/$DAEMON_NAME`) and any additional auxiliary files associated with each binary. `current` is a symbolic link to the currently active directory (i.e. `genesis` or `upgrades/<name>`). The `name` variable in `upgrades/<name>` is the URI-encoded name of the upgrade as specified in the upgrade module plan.

Please note that `$DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor` only stores the *application binaries*. The `cosmovisor` binary itself can be stored in any typical location (e.g. `/usr/local/bin`). The application will continue to store its data in the default data directory (e.g. `$HOME/.gaiad`) or the data directory specified with the `--home` flag. `$DAEMON_HOME` is independent of the data directory and can be set to any location. If you set `$DAEMON_HOME` to the same directory as the data directory, you will end up with a configuation like the following:

```
.gaiad
├── config
├── data
└── cosmovisor
```

## Usage

The system administrator is responsible for:

- installing the `cosmovisor` binary
- configuring the host's init system (e.g. `systemd`, `launchd`, etc.)
- appropriately setting the environmental variables
- manually installing the `genesis` folder
- manually installing the `upgrades/<name>` folders

`cosmovisor` will set the `current` link to point to `genesis` at first start (i.e. when no `current` link exists) and then handle switching binaries at the correct points in time so that the system administrator can prepare days in advance and relax at upgrade time.

In order to support downloadable binaries, a tarball for each upgrade binary will need to be packaged up and made available through a canonical URL. Additionally, a tarball that includes the genesis binary and all available upgrade binaries can be packaged up and made available so that all the necessary binaries required to sync a fullnode from start can be easily downloaded.

The `DAEMON` specific code and operations (e.g. tendermint config, the application db, syncing blocks, etc.) all work as expected. The application binaries' directives such as command-line flags and environment variables also work as expected.

## Auto-Download

Generally, `cosmovisor` requires that the system administrator place all relevant binaries on disk before the upgrade happens. However, for people who don't need such control and want an easier setup (maybe they are syncing a non-validating fullnode and want to do little maintenance), there is another option.

If `DAEMON_ALLOW_DOWNLOAD_BINARIES` is set to `true`, and no local binary can be found when an upgrade is triggered, `cosmovisor` will attempt to download and install the binary itself. The plan stored in the upgrade module has an info field for arbitrary JSON. This info is expected to be outputed on the halt log message. There are two valid formats to specify a download in such a message:

1. Store an os/architecture -> binary URI map in the upgrade plan info field as JSON under the `"binaries"` key. For example:

```json
{
  "binaries": {
    "linux/amd64":"https://example.com/gaia.zip?checksum=sha256:aec070645fe53ee3b3763059376134f058cc337247c978add178b6ccdfb0019f"
  }
}
```

2. Store a link to a file that contains all information in the above format (e.g. if you want to specify lots of binaries, changelog info, etc. without filling up the blockchain). For example:

```
https://example.com/testnet-1001-info.json?checksum=sha256:deaaa99fda9407c4dbe1d04bd49bab0cc3c1dd76fa392cd55a9425be074af01e
```

When `cosmovisor` is triggered to download the new binary, `cosmovisor` will parse the `"binaries"` field, download the new binary with [go-getter](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-getter), and unpack the new binary in the `upgrades/<name>` folder so that it can be run as if it was installed manually.

Note that for this mechanism to provide strong security guarantees, all URLs should include a SHA 256/512 checksum. This ensures that no false binary is run, even if someone hacks the server or hijacks the DNS. `go-getter` will always ensure the downloaded file matches the checksum if it is provided. `go-getter` will also handle unpacking archives into directories (in this case the download link should point to a `zip` file of all data in the `bin` directory).

To properly create a sha256 checksum on linux, you can use the `sha256sum` utility. For example:

```
sha256sum ./testdata/repo/zip_directory/autod.zip
```

The result will look something like the following: `29139e1381b8177aec909fab9a75d11381cab5adf7d3af0c05ff1c9c117743a7`.

You can also use `sha512sum` if you would prefer to use longer hashes, or `md5sum` if you would prefer to use broken hashes. Whichever you choose, make sure to set the hash algorithm properly in the checksum argument to the URL.

## Example: SimApp Upgrade

The following instructions provide a demonstration of `cosmovisor` using the simulation application (`simapp`) shipped with the Cosmos SDK's source code. The following commands are to be run from within the `cosmos-sdk` repository.

First, check out the latest `v0.42` release:

```
git checkout v0.42.7
```

Compile the `simd` binary:

```
make build
```

Reset `~/.simapp` (never do this in a production environment):

```
./build/simd unsafe-reset-all
```

Configure the `simd` binary for testing:

```
./build/simd config chain-id test
./build/simd config keyring-backend test
./build/simd config broadcast-mode block
```

Initialize the node and overwrite any previous genesis file (never do this in a production environment):

<!-- TODO: init does not read chain-id from config -->

```
./build/simd init test --chain-id test --overwrite
```

Set the minimum gas price to `0stake` in `~/.simapp/config/app.toml`:

```
minimum-gas-prices = "0stake"
```

Create a new key for the validator, then add a genesis account and transaction:

<!-- TODO: add-genesis-account does not read keyring-backend from config -->
<!-- TODO: gentx does not read chain-id from config -->

```
./build/simd keys add validator
./build/simd add-genesis-account validator 1000000000stake --keyring-backend test
./build/simd gentx validator 1000000stake --chain-id test
./build/simd collect-gentxs
```

Set the required environment variables:

```
export DAEMON_NAME=simd
export DAEMON_HOME=$HOME/.simapp
```

Set the optional environment variable to trigger an automatic restart:

```
export DAEMON_RESTART_AFTER_UPGRADE=true
```

Create the folder for the genesis binary and copy the `simd` binary:

```
mkdir -p $DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor/genesis/bin
cp ./build/simd $DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor/genesis/bin
```

For the sake of this demonstration, amend `voting_period` in `genesis.json` to a reduced time of 20 seconds (`20s`):

```
cat <<< $(jq '.app_state.gov.voting_params.voting_period = "20s"' $HOME/.simapp/config/genesis.json) > $HOME/.simapp/config/genesis.json
```

Next, we will hardcode a modification in `simapp` to simulate a code change. In `simapp/app.go`, find the line containing the `UpgradeKeeper` initialization. It should look like the following:

```go
app.UpgradeKeeper = upgradekeeper.NewKeeper(skipUpgradeHeights, keys[upgradetypes.StoreKey], appCodec, homePath)
```

After that line, add the following:

```go
app.UpgradeKeeper.SetUpgradeHandler("test1", func(ctx sdk.Context, plan upgradetypes.Plan) {
	// Add some coins to a random account
	addr, err := sdk.AccAddressFromBech32("cosmos18cgkqduwuh253twzmhedesw3l7v3fm37sppt58")
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	err = app.BankKeeper.AddCoins(ctx, addr, sdk.Coins{sdk.Coin{Denom: "stake", Amount: sdk.NewInt(345600000)}})
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
})
```

Now recompile the `simd` binary with the added upgrade handler:

```
make build
```

Create the folder for the upgrade binary and copy the `simd` binary:

```
mkdir -p $DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor/upgrades/test1/bin
cp ./build/simd $DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor/upgrades/test1/bin
```

Start `cosmosvisor`:

```
cosmovisor start
```

Open a new terminal window and submit an upgrade proposal along with a deposit and a vote (these commands must be run within 20 seconds of each other):

```
./build/simd tx gov submit-proposal software-upgrade test1 --title upgrade --description upgrade --upgrade-height 20 --from validator --yes
./build/simd tx gov deposit 1 10000000stake --from validator --yes
./build/simd tx gov vote 1 yes --from validator --yes
```

The upgrade will occur automatically at height 20.

Commit message:

feat: file watcher for cosmovisor (#8590)
Adding upgrade file watcher for cosmovisor.

Currently the comswisor upgrade mechanism relays on parsing log messages. This is not reliable:
+ depends on the log level output (x/upgrade uses INFO)
+ can be hacked by accidentally logging user user content
+ can be broken by using upgrade name which will break the regex pattern.

closes: #7703
closes: #8523
closes: #8651
closes: #8793
closes: #8964

**Depends on**:
- #9652

---

Before we can merge this PR, please make sure that all the following items have been
checked off. If any of the checklist items are not applicable, please leave them but
write a little note why.

- [ ] Targeted PR against correct branch (see [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#pr-targeting))
- [ ] Linked to Github issue with discussion and accepted design OR link to spec that describes this work.
- [ ] Code follows the [module structure standards](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/docs/building-modules/structure.md).
- [ ] Wrote unit and integration [tests](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#testing)
- [ ] Updated relevant documentation (`docs/`) or specification (`x/<module>/spec/`)
- [ ] Added relevant `godoc` [comments](https://blog.golang.org/godoc-documenting-go-code).
- [ ] Added a relevant changelog entry to the `Unreleased` section in `CHANGELOG.md`
- [ ] Re-reviewed `Files changed` in the Github PR explorer
- [ ] Review `Codecov Report` in the comment section below once CI passes

(cherry picked from commit 13559f9132637326e24408a93e28c71f7a76c848)

cosmovisor/README.md, after:

# Cosmosvisor Quick Start

`cosmovisor` is a small process manager for Cosmos SDK application binaries that monitors the governance module via stdout for incoming chain upgrade proposals. If it sees a proposal that gets approved, `cosmovisor` can automatically download the new binary, stop the current binary, switch from the old binary to the new one, and finally restart the node with the new binary.

*Note: If new versions of the application are not set up to run in-place store migrations, migrations will need to be run manually before restarting `cosmovisor` with the new binary. For this reason, we recommend applications adopt in-place store migrations.*

## Contributing

Release branches has the following format `release/cosmovisor/vA.B.x`, where A and B are a number (eg: `release/cosmovisor/v0.1.x`). Releases are tagged using the following format: `cosmovisor/vA.B.C`.

## Installation

To install `cosmovisor`, run the following command:

```
go get github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/cosmovisor/cmd/cosmovisor
```

## Command Line Arguments And Environment Variables

All arguments passed to `cosmovisor` will be passed to the application binary (as a subprocess). `cosmovisor` will return `/dev/stdout` and `/dev/stderr` of the subprocess as its own. For this reason, `cosmovisor` cannot accept any command-line arguments other than those available to the application binary, nor will it print anything to output other than what is printed by the application binary.

`cosmovisor` reads its configuration from environment variables:

* `DAEMON_HOME` is the location where the `cosmovisor/` directory is kept that contains the genesis binary, the upgrade binaries, and any additional auxiliary files associated with each binary (e.g. `$HOME/.gaiad`, `$HOME/.regend`, `$HOME/.simd`, etc.).
* `DAEMON_NAME` is the name of the binary itself (e.g. `gaiad`, `regend`, `simd`, etc.).
* `DAEMON_ALLOW_DOWNLOAD_BINARIES` (*optional*), if set to `true`, will enable auto-downloading of new binaries (for security reasons, this is intended for full nodes rather than validators). By default, `cosmovisor` will not auto-download new binaries.
* `DAEMON_RESTART_AFTER_UPGRADE` (*optional*), if set to `true`, will restart the subprocess with the same command-line arguments and flags (but with the new binary) after a successful upgrade. By default, `cosmovisor` stops running after an upgrade and requires the system administrator to manually restart it. Note that `cosmovisor` will not auto-restart the subprocess if there was an error.
* `DAEMON_POLL_INTERVAL` is the interval length in milliseconds for polling the upgrade plan file. Default: 300.
* `UNSAFE_SKIP_BACKUP` (defaults to `false`), if set to `false`, will backup the data before trying the upgrade. Otherwise it will upgrade directly without doing any backup. This is useful (and recommended) in case of failures and when needed to rollback. It is advised to use backup option, i.e., `UNSAFE_SKIP_BACKUP=false`

## Folder Layout

`$DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor` is expected to belong completely to `cosmovisor` and the subprocesses that are controlled by it. The folder content is organized as follows:

```
.
├── current -> genesis or upgrades/<name>
├── genesis
│   └── bin
│       └── $DAEMON_NAME
└── upgrades
    └── <name>
        ├── bin
        │   └── $DAEMON_NAME
        └── upgrade-info.json
```

The `cosmovisor/` directory incudes a subdirectory for each version of the application (i.e. `genesis` or `upgrades/<name>`). Within each subdirectory is the application binary (i.e. `bin/$DAEMON_NAME`) and any additional auxiliary files associated with each binary. `current` is a symbolic link to the currently active directory (i.e. `genesis` or `upgrades/<name>`). The `name` variable in `upgrades/<name>` is the URI-encoded name of the upgrade as specified in the upgrade module plan.

Please note that `$DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor` only stores the *application binaries*. The `cosmovisor` binary itself can be stored in any typical location (e.g. `/usr/local/bin`). The application will continue to store its data in the default data directory (e.g. `$HOME/.gaiad`) or the data directory specified with the `--home` flag. `$DAEMON_HOME` is independent of the data directory and can be set to any location. If you set `$DAEMON_HOME` to the same directory as the data directory, you will end up with a configuation like the following:

```
.gaiad
├── config
├── data
└── cosmovisor
```

## Usage

The system administrator is responsible for:

- installing the `cosmovisor` binary
- configuring the host's init system (e.g. `systemd`, `launchd`, etc.)
- appropriately setting the environmental variables
- manually installing the `genesis` folder
- manually installing the `upgrades/<name>` folders

`cosmovisor` will set the `current` link to point to `genesis` at first start (i.e. when no `current` link exists) and then handle switching binaries at the correct points in time so that the system administrator can prepare days in advance and relax at upgrade time.

In order to support downloadable binaries, a tarball for each upgrade binary will need to be packaged up and made available through a canonical URL. Additionally, a tarball that includes the genesis binary and all available upgrade binaries can be packaged up and made available so that all the necessary binaries required to sync a fullnode from start can be easily downloaded.

The `DAEMON` specific code and operations (e.g. tendermint config, the application db, syncing blocks, etc.) all work as expected. The application binaries' directives such as command-line flags and environment variables also work as expected.


### Detecting Upgrades

`cosmovisor` is polling the `$DAEMON_HOME/data/upgrade-info.json` file for new upgrade instructions. The file is created by the x/upgrade module in `BeginBlocker` when an upgrade is detected and the blockchain reaches the upgrade height.
The following heuristic is applied to detect the upgrade:
+ When starting, `cosmovisor` doesn't know much about currently running upgrade, except the binary which is `current/bin/`. It tries to read the `current/update-info.json` file to get information about the current upgrade name.
+ If neither `cosmovisor/current/upgrade-info.json` nor `data/upgrade-info.json` exist, then `cosmovisor` will wait for `data/upgrade-info.json` file to trigger an upgrade.
+ If `cosmovisor/current/upgrade-info.json` doesn't exist but `data/upgrade-info.json` exists, then `cosmovisor` assumes that whatever is in `data/upgrade-info.json` is a valid upgrade request. In this case `cosmovisor` tries immediately to make an upgrade according to the `name` attribute in `data/upgrade-info.json`.
+ Otherwise, `cosmovisor` waits for changes in `upgrade-info.json`. As soon as a new upgrade name is recorded in the file, `cosmovisor` will trigger an upgrade mechanism.

When the upgrade mechanism is triggered, `cosmovisor` will start by auto-downloading a new binary (if `DAEMON_ALLOW_DOWNLOAD_BINARIES` is enabled) into `cosmovisor/<name>/bin` (where `<name>` is the `upgrade-info.json:name` attribute). `cosmovisor` will then update the `current` symbolic link to point to the new directory and save `data/upgrade-info.json` to `cosmovisor/current/upgrade-info.json`.

## Auto-Download

Generally, `cosmovisor` requires that the system administrator place all relevant binaries on disk before the upgrade happens. However, for people who don't need such control and want an easier setup (maybe they are syncing a non-validating fullnode and want to do little maintenance), there is another option.

If `DAEMON_ALLOW_DOWNLOAD_BINARIES` is set to `true`, and no local binary can be found when an upgrade is triggered, `cosmovisor` will attempt to download and install the binary itself. The plan stored in the upgrade module has an info field for arbitrary JSON. This info is expected to be outputed on the halt log message. There are two valid formats to specify a download in such a message:

1. Store an os/architecture -> binary URI map in the upgrade plan info field as JSON under the `"binaries"` key. For example:

```json
{
  "binaries": {
    "linux/amd64":"https://example.com/gaia.zip?checksum=sha256:aec070645fe53ee3b3763059376134f058cc337247c978add178b6ccdfb0019f"
  }
}
```

2. Store a link to a file that contains all information in the above format (e.g. if you want to specify lots of binaries, changelog info, etc. without filling up the blockchain). For example:

```
https://example.com/testnet-1001-info.json?checksum=sha256:deaaa99fda9407c4dbe1d04bd49bab0cc3c1dd76fa392cd55a9425be074af01e
```

When `cosmovisor` is triggered to download the new binary, `cosmovisor` will parse the `"binaries"` field, download the new binary with [go-getter](https://github.com/hashicorp/go-getter), and unpack the new binary in the `upgrades/<name>` folder so that it can be run as if it was installed manually.

Note that for this mechanism to provide strong security guarantees, all URLs should include a SHA 256/512 checksum. This ensures that no false binary is run, even if someone hacks the server or hijacks the DNS. `go-getter` will always ensure the downloaded file matches the checksum if it is provided. `go-getter` will also handle unpacking archives into directories (in this case the download link should point to a `zip` file of all data in the `bin` directory).

To properly create a sha256 checksum on linux, you can use the `sha256sum` utility. For example:

```
sha256sum ./testdata/repo/zip_directory/autod.zip
```

The result will look something like the following: `29139e1381b8177aec909fab9a75d11381cab5adf7d3af0c05ff1c9c117743a7`.

You can also use `sha512sum` if you would prefer to use longer hashes, or `md5sum` if you would prefer to use broken hashes. Whichever you choose, make sure to set the hash algorithm properly in the checksum argument to the URL.

## Example: SimApp Upgrade

The following instructions provide a demonstration of `cosmovisor` using the simulation application (`simapp`) shipped with the Cosmos SDK's source code. The following commands are to be run from within the `cosmos-sdk` repository.

First, check out the latest `v0.42` release:

```
git checkout v0.42.7
```

Compile the `simd` binary:

```
make build
```

Reset `~/.simapp` (never do this in a production environment):

```
./build/simd unsafe-reset-all
```

Configure the `simd` binary for testing:

```
./build/simd config chain-id test
./build/simd config keyring-backend test
./build/simd config broadcast-mode block
```

Initialize the node and overwrite any previous genesis file (never do this in a production environment):

<!-- TODO: init does not read chain-id from config -->

```
./build/simd init test --chain-id test --overwrite
```

Set the minimum gas price to `0stake` in `~/.simapp/config/app.toml`:

```
minimum-gas-prices = "0stake"
```

Create a new key for the validator, then add a genesis account and transaction:

<!-- TODO: add-genesis-account does not read keyring-backend from config -->
<!-- TODO: gentx does not read chain-id from config -->

```
./build/simd keys add validator
./build/simd add-genesis-account validator 1000000000stake --keyring-backend test
./build/simd gentx validator 1000000stake --chain-id test
./build/simd collect-gentxs
```

Set the required environment variables:

```
export DAEMON_NAME=simd
export DAEMON_HOME=$HOME/.simapp
```

Set the optional environment variable to trigger an automatic restart:

```
export DAEMON_RESTART_AFTER_UPGRADE=true
```

Create the folder for the genesis binary and copy the `simd` binary:

```
mkdir -p $DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor/genesis/bin
cp ./build/simd $DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor/genesis/bin
```

For the sake of this demonstration, amend `voting_period` in `genesis.json` to a reduced time of 20 seconds (`20s`):

```
cat <<< $(jq '.app_state.gov.voting_params.voting_period = "20s"' $HOME/.simapp/config/genesis.json) > $HOME/.simapp/config/genesis.json
```

Next, we will hardcode a modification in `simapp` to simulate a code change. In `simapp/app.go`, find the line containing the `UpgradeKeeper` initialization. It should look like the following:

```go
app.UpgradeKeeper = upgradekeeper.NewKeeper(skipUpgradeHeights, keys[upgradetypes.StoreKey], appCodec, homePath)
```

After that line, add the following:

```go
app.UpgradeKeeper.SetUpgradeHandler("test1", func(ctx sdk.Context, plan upgradetypes.Plan) {
	// Add some coins to a random account
	addr, err := sdk.AccAddressFromBech32("cosmos18cgkqduwuh253twzmhedesw3l7v3fm37sppt58")
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
	err = app.BankKeeper.AddCoins(ctx, addr, sdk.Coins{sdk.Coin{Denom: "stake", Amount: sdk.NewInt(345600000)}})
	if err != nil {
		panic(err)
	}
})
```

Now recompile the `simd` binary with the added upgrade handler:

```
make build
```

Create the folder for the upgrade binary and copy the `simd` binary:

```
mkdir -p $DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor/upgrades/test1/bin
cp ./build/simd $DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor/upgrades/test1/bin
```

Start `cosmosvisor`:

```
cosmovisor start
```

Open a new terminal window and submit an upgrade proposal along with a deposit and a vote (these commands must be run within 20 seconds of each other):

```
./build/simd tx gov submit-proposal software-upgrade test1 --title upgrade --description upgrade --upgrade-height 20 --from validator --yes
./build/simd tx gov deposit 1 10000000stake --from validator --yes
./build/simd tx gov vote 1 yes --from validator --yes
```

The upgrade will occur automatically at height 20.
